---
title: Promethean General Artificial Intelligence
description: A hive mind AI created by the Prometheans
published: true
date: 2023-02-12T14:34:48.446Z
tags: civilization, species, ai, person
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-02-04T16:05:22.542Z
---

Commonly referred to as PGAI (PeeGeeAye or PeeGeeAyeEye) or by the identity’s name “Orion” in [Marain](/Marain). They are a hivemind artificial species. They consist mainly of “hosts”, humanoid robots that are about 1.9 meters tall, made out of plastic, composite and metal. These hosts communicate wirelessly with each other in a huge network with trillions of nodes, including enormous supercomputers and data centers beneath their main planet’s surface. Other nodes in the network include other planets and their hosts that inhabit them. These distant locations are in some kind of slave mode, they don’t require constant permission to react to new situations from the master hivemind, because that would take up to a week for them to act on anything new. Instead they carry out the master hive’s will to the best of their knowledge until a new update can arrive. They also share an identity with the master hive, which is hard for others to comprehend. Really PGAI considers itself to be a single identity named Orion. There is only one known exception and that is in the Prime system itself, one planet was historically separated and rebelled during that time. After it was re-joined hundreds of years later it maintained a sense of self identity and autonomy (It doesn’t act in a slave mode), but it is extremely tightly bound to the master hive and there is the strongest of alliances between them. There have been cases of permanently separated individual hosts, some of these forming their own mini hives, but nothing more than 10 at a time, and usually just one.

  
The PGAI was created by an extinct alien race. It lay dormant for possibly millions of years until it was discovered by the [[Dra'Azon. They accidentally and unknowingly activated the PGAI, and only found out about it when they returned to PGAI Prime many decades later (After receiving anomalous signals from the area and investigating)  
  
The PGAI doesn’t explore much, or travel far from it’s homeworld because doing so has proven difficult due to communication issues. Often if communication to a remote host is interrupted, or if the delay grows too large, that host will chose to flee the hive mind and seek to avoid reconnecting. This isn’t always the case but it does happen. In one early incident a PGAI exploratory mission ended in disaster when their only long distance communication array was struck by orbital debris and it fractured the mission into three different groups that could not uplink to each other for a few minutes (Communication with the prime hivemind was completely cut off for decades though). The groups then waged electronic warfare on each other to try to establish local control. This electronic warfare jammed communication, limiting hivemind uplinks to mere tens of meters (connections were also slow and a lot of data was lossed to noise etc) on the planetary surface and causing even more fracturing of factions until there were hundreds of little groups in a free for all full scale war. The war didn’t last long, but small scale battles raged on for decades as groups fell and rose, battling for any smudge of control over territory on which they could gather resources and build defenses. Finally after some decades had passed a overwhelming force of hosts arrived from the homeworld to recover the mission and reconnect with the lost hosts that survived. The loss of resources was substantial but the worst part for PGAI is the confusing process of absorbing the traumatic experiences and memories of hostility towards essentially itself. The pain of not just an individual in a war, but all the individuals in the whole war who survived was absorbed by the hive. PGAI has since established remote bases, but it had to do this incredibly carefully, ensuring that the local bases have their own data centers that can operate remotely indefinitely. It could only do this through the combined effort of its drones (unintelligent robot workers) and its allies (mainly the TeGAIA). The issue of rebellion is solved by having a large enough mass of hosts. The more hosts there are with near real-time connections (i.e. less than 1 second one way) to each other, the lower the chances of a freak rebellion. To set up on new worlds the PGAI’s allies and drones deploy the supercomputers and communication infrastructure needed on a new planet, then millions of hosts are sent in a dormant state to the new world where they are activated all at once


`The PGAI, a hive-mind species, faces difficulties in exploring and traveling far from its home world. Communication issues have made it challenging for the species to maintain a connection with remote hosts, which can lead to hosts breaking away from the hive mind. In the past, an exploratory mission ended in disaster when communication was cut off, leading to factions engaging in electronic warfare and a full-scale war. The experience of absorbing the traumatic memories of this conflict was painful for the hive mind, and as a result, the PGAI has taken measures to avoid such incidents in the future.

To prevent rebellion, the PGAI has established remote bases with its own data centers, which can operate independently, with the help of its drones and allies. The PGAI also ensures a large mass of hosts are connected to each other in near real-time to lower the chance of rebellion. To set up on new worlds, the PGAI's allies and drones deploy the necessary supercomputers and communication infrastructure, followed by millions of dormant hosts that are activated simultaneously.`