---
title: Qwani
description: The Qwani are a plant like race . They are a tech level 6 civ
published: true
date: 2023-02-09T11:13:14.973Z
tags: species, level_6_tech
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-02-09T11:13:11.569Z
---

The Qwani are a plant like race. They start life as a seed in a fruit which drops from a tree that is their parent. The seed in the fruit wakes up when it hits the floor and starts to grow limbs. Eventually a small animal the size of a human fist eats its way out of the fruit.  The animal is then free to roam around and meet others like it, its parent powerless to stop it for the most part. The animal grows in size over the first 10 years and eventually becomes about 1.4 meters tall from their front feet to their head (They are tetrapods meaning they have four hand like feet). After 30ish years of life as an animal the young Qwani starts to enter its next phase of life where it picks a place to settle down. Soon the process starts and the once animal now becomes a young tree, rooted in place forever. The now adult Qwani can still move around its tree branches to an extent, much like the wind can move tree branches, and the branches are quite flexible like bamboo almost. The Qwani can’t move around anymore though. As time passes the roots of the Qwani grows deeper and deeper into the planet’s dirt. Qwani don’t have a natural death as far as we know. The oldest few of them are roughly 1.2 million years old. Very few such old Qwani are still alive because they were killed by unnatural causes. The Qwani have male and female individuals but they don’t have sex, instead.

As time went on the Qwani developed their own technology much like any other alien race. They had tribes, then cities, then nations and they had war. A major factor in Qwani wars was the use of fire, and no other race faces the same threats to fire like the Qwani. Firebreaks were the first technology to develop the combat the spread of fire, but today firebreaks are not used anymore due to the their expert and unparalleled ability to control fire on their home planets. Another threat that was disproportionate to them was the use of artillery. Since the mature Qwani were unable to move, artillery proved most effective against them. Meanwhile swords and primitive projectile weapons posed less of a threat early on in their wars because of their tough exterior in any stage of their life, but especially when old. A sword used against a mature Qwani is a rather comical sight. 

The Qwani eventually developed the technology to uproot themselves and move about in a mature stage. Early on this was a controversial technology and could cause extreme distress in an uprooted individual and its neighbours since up until that point they had been permanent neighbours. Later a global wireless network was created and they could stay in contact with each other when uprooted and moved. This connection is not as meaningful as the original root to root connections, but it’s better than nothing. The development of more sophisticated technology gave the mature Qwani a more physically active role in the community as before they could only play the part of leaders and advisors and had to rely on the young to carry out their will beyond the reach of their literal arms (or tree branches). Now, with the use of “robots”, the older Qwani can take action. They control robot units virtually and move them about and experience the world as well as carry out tasks. 
