---
title: The Choir
description: The Choir is a mostly human faction of religious zealots that worship the gigantic beings on the Z'Tran home system’s planets.
published: true
date: 2023-02-09T10:53:54.696Z
tags: faction
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-02-09T10:53:51.406Z
---

The Choir is a mostly human faction of religious zealots that worship the gigantic beings on the Z'Tran home system’s planets.

>  *“The Choir Master tells us of the days before the Choir was officially formed. In these times, true believers were declared insane theists and abhorrent false-god worshippers. Yet the evidence was clear to all those who simply took the time to look. Our ancestors found the ruins of the alien civilization, and with it they found the evidence of great deities of [[The Milky Way|the galaxy]]; holy ancient ones. For years the fledgling choir worshipped the Deep Ones and communicated with them through the holy artefacts… and we grew, slowly yet surely… people saw the holy truth. Yet others ridiculed the Choir. They scorned our ancestors, they said the holy worship was all but madman ravings and obsession over ancient alien relics. BUT THE CHOIR KNEW… and we still know now. Eventually a tiny speck of hope fell into our laps. A rumour… a myth… a whisper of the alien race that were our brothers and sisters in worship of the Deep Ones. Or so we thought. We followed the rumour. We travelled far across the dark sea of stars. Finally, we found them. A star system of kingdoms, reminiscent of humanities feudal past. Each of the sixteen planets of the system were a kingdom in itself… holy kingdoms orbiting a bright golden sun. YET DECEIT HID JUST UNDER THE SURFACE. The aliens welcomed us at first. We landed upon the outer-most planet of the system, a planet with a name in an alien language unpronounceable by human tongue. We named it Posiedos; after the ancient Greco-Romanii false-god of the ocean. These planets were magnificent… almost entirely made of ocean with little land. The aliens lived under their seas, mighty ocean kingdoms of holy worship. Like I said, the aliens spoke a language far out of reach of the human tongue. Yet they soon learnt our language. These aliens were similar to us humans, yet so unlike us. They were human in size and possessed the same general structure. Yet their skin was leathery and possessed scales in some places. They were also coloured different, in bright greens and blues, and some possessed luminescent patterns upon their flesh. All possessed gills and could breathe both air and water. They were no savages either, with a society of knight-like castes and rulers of vast planet spanning kingdoms. Cities and palaces made from pearl and coral. Magnificent… truly magnificent… YET ALL LIES! They told us of their origin. They believed the Deep Ones created them and worshipped the Deep Ones in even more reverence than we could muster. Great ocean churches and cathedrals dedicated to the glorious beings. But… but timed passed and we still had not been offered audience with the ancient gods. We asked… and then pleaded…and then demanded. They refused. They told us we were not yet ready! And they would not tell us where they hid the beings we so wished to serve.”*
\- Recorded dictations of High Deacon Mathius Oberyn, chosen enlightened of the Deep Ones